AI Viva Voce Quiz Mode
Submitted for the OpenAI Academy x NxtWave Buildathon
By: Vignesh Das
Team Name: Solo Scholar

🚀 Live Application Demo
You can test the fully functional, live web application here:

https://viva-bot-buildathon.streamlit.app/

(Note: This is an example link. Please replace it with the actual URL you get after deploying on Streamlit Community Cloud.)

🎯 About The Project
For engineering students, the viva voce (oral) exam is one of the most stressful academic challenges. Traditional studying is often passive and fails to prepare students for the pressure of a real-time, interactive examination.

This project, the AI Viva Voce Quiz Mode, is an intelligent web application designed to solve this problem. It acts as a personal AI tutor that turns any study material into an active and engaging practice session.

Key Features:

Upload & Analyze: A student can upload any PDF document—lab reports, project documentation, or class notes.

AI-Powered Quiz Generation: The application uses the Google Gemini 1.5 Flash API to analyze the document's content and generate a challenging 10-question quiz.

Interactive Quiz Mode: Crucially, the app hides the correct answers, forcing the student to actively recall information and type in their own answers for all 10 questions, simulating a real exam.

Instant Feedback & Scoring: Once submitted, the AI switches roles to become an examiner. It evaluates the student's answers against the ideal solutions, provides constructive feedback for each question, and gives a final score.

This tool transforms a passive study session into a powerful, confidence-building mock exam experience.

🛠️ How to Run This Code
This project is built with Python and Streamlit and is best deployed from a GitHub repository.

1. Setup
Clone the repository to your local machine:

git clone [https://github.com/Vigneshk64/viva-bot-buildathon.git](https://github.com/Vigneshk64/viva-bot-buildathon.git)

Create and activate a virtual environment:

python -m venv venv
.\venv\Scripts\activate

2. Install Dependencies
Install all the required libraries from the requirements.txt file:

pip install -r requirements.txt

3. Set up the API Key
The application is designed to pull the Gemini API key from a secure Streamlit Secret. For local execution:

Create a folder named .streamlit in the project directory.

Inside that folder, create a file named secrets.toml.

Add your API key to the file in this format:

GEMINI_API_KEY = "YOUR_API_KEY_HERE"

4. Run the Application
Execute the following command in your terminal:

streamlit run app.py

💻 Technologies Used
Language: Python

Framework: Streamlit

AI Model: Google Gemini 1.5 Flash

Key Libraries: google-generativeai, pypdf

Deployment: GitHub & Streamlit Community Cloud